THE STATE OF STATE AI
Legislative Approaches to AI in 2025

      OCTOBER 2025 • SUPPLEMENTAL
                                                AUTHORS
                                                 Justine Gluck
              Policy Analyst, AI Policy and Legislation, Future of Privacy Forum

                                                     Beth Do
                                 Policy Fellow, Future of Privacy Forum

                                                  Tatiana Rice
                  Senior Director of U.S. Legislation, Future of Privacy Forum




                                 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
                      Thanks to Bridget Egan for her research contributions.




The Future of Privacy Forum (FPF) is a non-profit organization that serves as a catalyst
for privacy leadership and scholarship, advancing principled data practices in support of
emerging technologies. Learn more about FPF by visiting fpf.org.




   All FPF materials that are released publicly are free to share and adapt with appropriate attribution. Learn more.
 Table 1. Legislative Outcomes for State AI Bills

Overview of the 210 industry-focused AI bills tracked by FPF in 2025, illustrating the status of each
bill within the legislative process.

 2025 State AI Bill Tracker




 Table 2. State by State Legislative Outcomes for AI Bills

Overview of the number of industry-focused AI bills introduced per state in 2025, distinguishing
how many bills were enrolled or enacted per state.

 Introduced AI Billls, Enrolled or Enacted by State as of September 2025

    40




    30




    20




    10




    0     AL
         AK
         AR
         CA
         CO
         CT
         DE
          FL
         GA
          HI
          ID
           IL
          IN
          IA
         KY
          LA
         ME
         MD
         MA
          MI
         MN
         MS
         MO
         MT
         NV
          NJ
         NM
         NY
         NC
         OH
         OK
         OR
         PA
         SC
         TX
         UT
         VT
         VA
         WARI
         WV
         WY

                                     Enrolled or Enacted          Introduced

                                    Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025   3
 Table 3. Overview of NCSL-Tracked AI Bills in 2025

Overview of the 1,033 AI-related bills tracked by the National Conference of State Legislatures
(NCSL) in 2025, by category.

 NCSL Bills by Category
  NCSL Bills by Category
  Judicial Use                                                                                                   Appropriations
  1.4%                                                                                                                     3.1%
  Energy                                                                                                        Government Use
  1.6%                                                                                                                   12.5%
  Private Sector Use
  10.5%
  Oversight/Governance
  .8%



  Education Use                                                                                                      Health Use
  10.6%                                                                                                                   13.3%




  Responsible Use                                                                                                   Notification
  5.9%                                                                                                                     3.4%
  Provenance                                                                                                            Studies
  1.5%                                                                                                                    6.0%
  Effect on Labor/Employment                                                                                          Elections
  4.8%                                                                                                                    4.5%
  Education/Training                                                                                                     CSAM
  1.6%                                                                                                                    3.0%
  Criminal Use                                                                                                         Housing
  8.8%                                                                                                                     4.1%




 Table 4. Overview of NCSL-Tracked AI Bills in 2025: By Industry Obligations

Overview of the 1,033 AI-related bills tracked by the National Conference of State Legislatures
(NCSL) in 2025, distinguished by bills that set or did not set industry obligations.

                       All NCSL Bills by Industry Obligation
 All NCSL Bills by Industry Obligation



                        Industry Obligation
                        30.1%
                                                     295


                                                                       685
                                                                                        No Industry Obligation
                                                                                                           69.9%




                                              Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025   4
 Table 5. Categorization of FPF-Tracked State AI Bills: Subcategories

Organizes the 210 industry-focused AI bills tracked by FPF’s U.S. Legislation Team in 2025 across
18 subcategories.

 Status of AI Bills by Category


 Finance
 .4%                                                                                                Government Use
 Employment                                                                                                  14.6%
 9.6%


 ADMT/High-Risk AI
 11.7%
                                                                                                          Task Force
                                                                                                                7.5%



                                                                                                         Investment
                                                                                                                5.9%
 Health                                                                                           Regulatory Agency
 8.8%                                                                                                            .8%
                                                                                                           AI Safety
 Biometrics                                                                                                     5.4%
 .8%                                                                                                         Liability
                                                                                                                2.5%
 Chatbots
 3.8%                                                                                                    Sandboxes
 Privacy                                                                                                         .8%
 1.7%                                                                                                 Transparency
                                                                                                                5.9%
 Frontier/Foundation
 2.9%                                                                                                 Miscellaneous
                                                                                                                1.7%
 Generative AI                                                                                    Comprehensive AI
 10.9%                                                                                                          2.1%




                                  Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025     5
 Table 6. Categorization of FPF-Tracked State AI Bills: Themes

Organizes the 210 industry-focused AI bills tracked by FPF’s U.S. Legislation Team in 2025 into
overarching themes, excluding bills focused on government use and strategy that do not set direct
industry obligations. Bills in the “miscellaneous” category are primarily comprehensive AI legislation.

 Status of AI Bills with Industry Obligations by Broad Category



                                                                        Liability and Accountability
                                                                                             23.8%

      Use/Context-Specific
      41.9%
                                                                                        Miscellaneous
                                                                                                 5.0%




                                                                                Technology Specific
                                                                                                  29.4%



 Table 7. FPF-Tracked State AI Bills: By Industry Obligations

Reveals that the vast majority of bills tracked by FPF set obligations on industry (bills with
“no industry obligation” primarily fell under the “government oversight and strategy” theme not
      FPF in
highlightedTracked    Bills
              this report).

 FPF Tracked Bills



        No Industry Obligation
        23.8%




                                                                                  Industry Obligation
                                                                                               76.2%




                                   Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025   6
 Table 8. Description of FPF-Tracked AI Bill Categories

Details the different types of AI bills identified by FPF and their categorization, falling within
overarching themes.

                   Use or Context-Specific                                          Technology Specific

    Focuses on certain uses of AI in high-risk                              Focuses on specific types of AI
    decisionmaking or contexts–such as healthcare,                          technologies based on the tailored
    employment, and finance–as well as broader                              risks they present, such as generative
    proposals that address AI systems used in a variety                     AI, frontier/foundation models, and
    of consequential decisionmaking contexts. These                         chatbots. These bills often tailor
    bills typically focus on applications where AI may                      requirements to the functionality,
    significantly impact individuals’ rights, access to                     capabilities, or use patterns of
    services, or economic opportunities.                                    each system type.
    Employment: Regulates AI in the workplace,                              Generative AI: Requires public
    including transparency measures for the use of                          disclosure/provenance data for
    automated employment decision tools (AEDTs) and                         AI-generated content (including
    employee monitoring.                                                    generative AI, and chatbots).
    Health: Establishes disclosure and oversight                            Frontier/Foundation Models:
    requirements for AI used in health care, including                      Regulates foundation AI systems–
    mandates for practitioner review of AI-influenced                       includes open or closed source,
    decisions and regulations for mental health chatbots.                   dual-use foundation models, and
                                                                            frontier models.
    Finance: Regulates AI systems that evaluate
    consumer’s credit, lending decisions, and other                         Chatbots: Regulates the use of AI-
    actions within the financial services industry.                         powered chatbots, with a focus on
                                                                            chatbots used in sensitive contexts
    ADMT / High-Risk AI: AI and automated decision
                                                                            like mental health and employment,
    systems used in high-risk decisionmaking contexts
                                                                            setting disclosure and notification
    that significantly impact individuals’ lives and
                                                                            requirements and liability standards.
    livelihoods, often in areas protected by existing civil
    rights law.                                                             Biometrics: Regulates AI tools
                                                                            that collect biometric identifiers,
    Data Privacy: Imposes obligations on AI systems, often
                                                                            including regulating the creation of
    ‘high-risk’ systems, that collect personal information,
                                                                            biometric identification systems from
    including data collection and security practices.
                                                                            web scraping.



                                             Liability and Accountability

   Focuses on defining, clarifying, or qualifying legal responsibility for use and development of AI systems, such
   as establishing liability standards, creating affirmative defenses, or authorizing regulatory sandboxes. These
   aim to support accountability, responsible innovation, and greater legal clarity.
   Liability: Creates independent liability regimes for harms resulting from AI use or clarifies existing tort liability
   regarding its application to AI.
   AI Safety: Establishes transparency and accountability measures to mitigate AI-related harms, such as
   requiring safety testing, publishing safety and security protocols, and protecting whistleblowers who report
   safety violations.
   Transparency: Requires disclosures about the use and functioning of AI systems, such as notifying individuals
   when they are interacting with AI systems and not humans and disclosing system capabilities or training data.
   Sandboxes: Administers a program for entities to test innovative AI systems under regulator supervision.



                                         Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025   7
Table 8. Description of FPF-Tracked AI Bill Categories (continued)


                                   Government Oversight and Strategy

 Focuses on requirements for government agencies’ use of AI that have downstream or indirect effects on
 the private sector, such as creating standards and requirements for agencies procuring AI systems from
 private sector vendors.
 Government Use: Encourages or governs the government’s own use of AI, including requiring impact
 assessments and inventories of agency AI tools and setting government procurement standards.
 Task Force: Establishes committees to assess AI benefits and risks, examine AI frameworks, and analyze
 agency AI use.
 Regulatory Agency: Establishes new divisions to provide regulatory oversight of AI practices, including
 investigating complaints, conducting audits, and setting standards.
 Investment: Builds initiatives aimed at fostering innovation, including grant and incentive programs.



                                                Miscellaneous

 Focuses on broad AI bills that establish comprehensive regulatory frameworks addressing multiple
 technologies and policy areas in a single bill.
 Comprehensive AI: Develops broad regulatory frameworks governing AI use, encompassing multiple
 technologies and policy issues such as transparency, safety, and high-risk AI.




                                     Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025   8
  Table 9. Political Affiliation of 2025 State AI Bills

Breakdown of industry-focused AI bills introduced versus enrolled or enacted* in 2025 by political
affiliation of the primary sponsor.

      FPF AI
          Tracked
  Introduced         Bills
              Bills by Political Affiliation of Sponsor




           Republican
           24.8%




                                                                                                                        Democrat
                                                                                                                           75.2%




  Enrolled or enacted AI Bills by Political Affiliation of Sponsor




          Republican
          40.5%




                                                                                                                        Democrat
                                                                                                                           59.5%




*Enrolled or enacted bills include all bills tracked by FPF, including government use and strategy bills with indirect impacts on industry.



                                                  Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025          9
 Table 10. Political Affiliation of 2025 State AI Bills Based on Bill Categorization

Breakdown of AI-related bills introduced by political affiliation of the primary sponsor, as per
FPF’s bill tracking categories.

 Democrat Introduced AI Bills by Broad Category

    Miscellaneous
    4.5%

                                                                                        Government Oversight
                                                                                                      26.5%

    Use/Context-Specific
    34.2%




    Technology Specific                                                             Liability and Accountability
    21.3%                                                                                                13.5%




 Republican Introduced AI Bills by Broad Category
     Republican-Introduced Bills by Broad Category

       Miscellaneous
       3.8%
       Technology Specific
       17.0%


                                                                                      Government Oversight
                                                                                                    43.4%



       Use/Context-Specific
       20.8%



       Liability and Accountability
       15.1%




                                      Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025   10
  Table 11. Enrolled or Enacted 2025 State AI Bills

Includes the bill number, description, and category of industry-focused AI bills enacted in 2025.*

                                                       11 BILLS ARE ENACTED
  Enacted State Bill                   Description                                             Category

  Arkansas HB 1876
                                       Ownership of AI-Generated Content                       Technology-Specific (Generative AI)
  Rep. Richardson (R)


  Connecticut SB 1295                  Personal Data Used in
                                                                                               Use / Context Specific (ADMT)
  Sen. Maroney (D)                     Automated Decisionmaking


  Illinois HB 1806
                                       Healthcare Professionals’ Use of AI                     Use / Context Specific (Health)
  Rep. Morgan (D)


  Maine LD 1727
                                       AI Chatbot Transparency                                 Technology-Specific (Chatbots)
  Rep. Kuhn (D)

                                                                                               Use / Context Specific
  Montana SB 212                       Right to Compute & AI in Critical                       (Critical Infrastructure);
  Sen. Zolnikov (R)                    Infrastructure                                          Liability and Accountability
                                                                                               (Right to Compute)

  Nevada AB 406
                                       AI Use by Healthcare Providers                          Use / Context Specific (Health)
  Asm. Jackson (D)


  New York S-3008C
                                       AI Companions                                           Technology-Specific (Chatbots)
  (FY26 Budget)


  Texas SB 1188
                                       AI Use by Healthcare Practitioners                      Use / Context Specific (Health)
  Sen. Kolkhorst (R)


  Texas HB 149                         Responsible AI Governance Act                           Liability and Accountability
  Rep. Capriglione (R)                 (TRAIGA)                                                (Regulatory Sandbox)


  Utah B 226                           Generative AI Transparency in High-
                                                                                               Use / Context Specific (High-Risk Uses);
  Sen. Cullimore (R)                   Risk Consumer Interactions

                                                                                               Use / Context Specific (Health)
  Utah HB 452                                                                                  Technology-Specific (Chatbots)
                                       AI-Driven Mental Health Chatbots
  Rep. Moss (R)                                                                                Liability and Accountability
                                                                                               (Affirmative Defense)



*For purposes of this report, “enacted” refers to bills that have passed both chambers of the legislature and been enrolled, though they may still
be awaiting gubernatorial signature at the time of publication. Upon publication of this report, bills in California and New York are still awaiting
gubernatorial action. This total is limited to bills with direct implications for industry and excludes measures focused solely on government use
of AI or those that only extend the effective date of prior legislation.



                                                  Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025                   11
Table 11. Enrolled or Enacted 2025 State AI Bills (continued)



                    9 BILLS ARE ENROLLED BUT HAVE NOT YET BEEN SIGNED
Enrolled Bill             Description                                      Category

California SB 243
                          Companion Chatbots                               Technology-Specific (Chatbots)
Sen. Padilla (D)


California SB 53          Transparency in Frontier Artificial              Technology-Specific (Frontier Models)
Sen. Weiner (D)           Intelligence Act (TFAIA)                         Liability and Accountability (Strict Liability)


California SB 11
                          Digital Replicas Consumer Warning                Technology-Specific (Generative AI)
Sen. Ashby (D)


California SB 7           Employment and Automated
                                                                           Use / Context Specific (Employment)
Sen. McNerney (D)         Decision Systems


California AB 1064        Leading Ethical AI Development (LEAD)
                                                                           Technology-Specific (Chatbots)
Asm. Bauer-Kahan (D)      for Kids Act


California AB 853                                                          Technology-Specific (Generative AI)
                          Amendments to CA AI Transparency Act
Asm. Wicks (D)

                                                                           Use / Context Specific (Health)
California AB 489         Artificial Intelligence and
                                                                           Liability and Accountability
Asm. Bonta (D)            Health Care Professions
                                                                           (Title Protections)

California AB 316                                                          Liability and Accountability
                          AI Liability Defenses
Asm. Krell (D)                                                             (Legal Defense)

                                                                           Technology-Specific
New York S 6453                                                            (Frontier Models);
                          Frontier Model Safety (RAISE Act)
Asm. Bores (D)                                                             Liability and Accountability
                                                                           (Strict Liability)




                                    Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025       12
 Table 12. Enrolled or Enacted and Passed (in at least one chamber)
 Use- or Context-Specific AI Bills

Includes the bill number, author, category, and description of bills enrolled or enacted, as well as bills
passing at least one legislative chamber, in 2025 under the theme of Use- or Context- Specific.
  = Signed by Governor and Enrolled or Enacted           = Passed Chamber       = Passed Chamber + Cross-Committee
  = Passed Both Chambers + Veto’ed by Governor



                                            ENROLLED OR ENACTED BILLS
 Bill Number               Author                      Category             Description

 California SB 7           Sen. McNerney (D)           Employment           Would require an employer using ADS to provide a
                                                                            notice, limit the purposes in which an ADS can be
 (Awaiting Governor
                                                                            used to make decisions, and allow workers affected
 action)
                                                                            by an employment-related decision made by an ADS
                                                                            to access data.

 California AB 489         Asm. Bonta (D)              Health               Would provide regulators the authority to enforce
                                                                            title protections against those who develop or deploy
 (Awaiting Governor
 action)                                                                    AI systems that claim to be licensed or certified
                                                                            health professionals.

 California CPPA           California Privacy          High-Risk AI         Creates implementing regulations from privacy law
 Draft Regulations         Protection Agency           / Automated          regarding ADMT in significant decisions, requiring
                                                       Decisionmaking       covered entities to provide notice to consumers,
 (Awaiting Governor
 action)                                               (Privacy)            conduct risk assessments, and provide consumers
                                                                            rights to access, opt-out, and appeal ADMT decisions.

 Connecticut               Sen. Maroney (D)            High-Risk AI         Amends the data privacy law with provisions
 SB 1295                                               / Automated          regarding ADMT, requiring covered entities to
                                                       Decisionmaking       conduct an ADMT impact assessment and provide
                                                       (Privacy)            consumers rights to access, review, and if the
                                                                            decision concerned housing, the right to correct.

 Illinois HB 1806          Rep. Morgan (D)             Health               Limits licensed professionals’ AI use to “permitted
                                                                            uses,” prohibiting AI for independent therapeutic
                                                                            decisions, direct client interaction, or generating
                                                                            treatment recommendations.

 Montana SB 212            Sen. Zolnikov (R)           Critical             Requires deployers of critical AI systems (those
                                                       Infrastructure       making or are a substantial factor in making a
                                                                            consequential decision) used for critical infrastructure
                                                                            facilities to develop a risk management policy.

 Nevada AB 406             Asm. Jackson (D)            Health               Prohibits AI providers from offering or advertising
                                                                            the use of an AI system for mental or behavioral
                                                                            healthcare. Licensed providers may not use AI to
                                                                            deliver care except in administrative capacities.

 New Jersey Data           Attorney General            High-Risk AI         Creates implementing regulations for the data
 Privacy Rulemaking                                    / Automated          privacy law regarding automated profiling to make
                                                       Decisionmaking       legal or similarly significant effects, requiring covered
 (Awaiting Finalization)
                                                       (Privacy)            entities to disclose information to consumers,
                                                                            conduct an annual risk assessment, and provide
                                                                            consumers the right to opt-out.



                                               Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025       13
Table 12. Enrolled or Enacted and Passed (in at least one chamber)
Use- or Context-Specific AI Bills (continued)
                                ENROLLED OR ENACTED BILLS (continued)
Texas SB 1188           Sen. Kolkhorst (R)         Health               Permits healthcare AI diagnostics if practitioners
                                                                        operate within their license, adhere to laws, review AI
                                                                        records per standards, and disclose AI use to patients.

Utah SB 226             Sen. Cullimore (R)         High-Risk AI         Amended the Utah AI Policy Act to limit disclosure
                                                   / Automated          requirements to “high-risk” interactions that could
                                                   Decisionmaking       be relied upon by consumers to make significant
                                                   (Generative)         decisions, including the provision of financial, legal,
                                                                        or medical services.

Utah SB 452             Rep. Moss (R)              Health               Suppliers of chatbots used for mental health
                                                                        must disclose information to users and avoid in-
                                                                        interaction advertising. They have an affirmative
                                                                        defense if they document properly and create a
                                                                        detailed safeguard policy.

                         KEY BILLS THAT PASSED AT LEAST ONE CHAMBER
California SB 238       Sen. Smallwood-            Employment           Would require an employer to annually provide a
                        Cuevas (D)                                      notice to the Department of workplace surveillance
                                                                        tools used, including the data that will be collected
                                                                        from workers and consumers and whether they will
                                                                        have the option of opting out of the collection of
                                                                        personal data.

California SB 420       Sen. Padilla (D)           High-Risk AI         Would regulate high-risk ADMT by requiring an
                                                   / Automated          impact assessment and governance program.
                                                   Decisionmaking       Employers would be required to notify individuals
                                                                        subject to an ADS decision and allow an opportunity
                                                                        to appeal the decision.

California AB 1018      Asm. Bauer-Kahan           High-Risk AI         Would regulate ADMT used to make consequential
                        (D)                        / Automated          decisions, requiring deployers to provide disclosures
                                                   Decisionmaking       and opt-outs for those subject to ADS, and execute
                                                                        performance evaluations and third-party audits.

Connecticut SB 2        Sen. Maroney (D)           High-Risk AI         Would regulate high-risk AI systems used in
                                                   / Automated          consequential decisions, requiring developer
                                                   Decisionmaking       to deployer disclosures, consumer disclosures,
                                                                        impact assessments, AI governance programs, and
                                                                        consumer rights to correct and appeal decisions.

New York S 1169         Sen. Gonzalez (D)          High-Risk AI         Would regulate high-risk AI systems, requiring user
                                                   / Automated          notice, the right to opt-out, and appeal adverse
                                                   Decisionmaking       decisions. It would also prohibit use of a high-risk AI
                                                                        system that produces algorithmic discrimination or
                                                                        has not passed an independent audit.

Virginia HB 2094        Del. Maldonado (D)         High-Risk AI         Would regulate AI systems used in consequential
(Veto’ed by Governor)                              / Automated          decisions, requiring entities to use reasonable care
                                                   Decisionmaking       to protect consumers from algorithmic discrimination,
                                                                        conduct impact assessments, manage a risk management
                                                                        program, and provide consumers the right to explanation
                                                                        and appeal where there is an adverse decision.


                                           Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025     14
  Table 13. Enrolled or Enacted and Passed (in at least one chamber) Technology-Specific AI Bills

Includes the bill number, author, category, and description of bills enacted, as well as bills passing at least
one legislative chamber, in 2025 under the theme of Technology-Specific.
  = Signed by Governor and Enrolled or Enacted       = Passed Chamber       = Passed Chamber + Cross-Committee
  = Passed Both Chambers + Vetoed by Govenor


                          KEY BILLS THAT PASSED AT LEAST ONE CHAMBER
 Bill Number            Author                     Category             Description

 Arkansas HB 1876       Rep. Richardson (R)        Generative AI        Declares that the person who provides the input or
                                                                        data to a generative AI tool shall be the owner of the
                                                                        generated content or resulting trained model.

 California SB 243      Sen. Padilla (D)           Chatbots             Would require AI companion chatbot platforms to
 (Awaiting Governor                                                     publish safety protocols addressing suicide and
 action)                                                                self-harm, take reasonable steps to prevent specified
                                                                        conduct, and remind users the chatbot is not human.

 California SB 53       Sen. Weiner (D)            Frontier/            Requires large developers of frontier models to write
                                                   Foundation           and publish a frontier AI framework and implement
 (Awaiting Governor
                                                   Models               appropriate safeguards to prevent “catastrophic
 action)
                                                                        risk.” Includes protections against retaliation for
                                                                        employee whistleblowers.

 California SB 11       Sen. Ashby (D)             Generative AI        Would require providers of AI systems designed to
 (Awaiting Governor                                                     create digital replicas to provide a consumer warning
 action)                                                                that misuse may result in criminal liability.

 California AB 1064     Asm. Bauer-Kahan           Chatbots             Would regulate ”companion chatbots” available to
 (Awaiting Governor     (D)                                             children; operators would be prohibited from making
 action)                                                                a companion chatbot available to a child if capable of
                                                                        specified harms (e.g. offering mental health therapy,
                                                                        encouraging violence or self harm, etc.).

 California AB 853      Asm. Wicks (D)             Generative AI        Would offer amendments to the California AI
 (Awaiting Governor                                                     Transparency Act, requiring large online platforms to
 action)                                                                provide a user interface to disclose the availability
                                                                        of system provenance data. The bill would add new
                                                                        obligations for capture device manufacturers and
                                                                        introduce new restrictions for GenAI platforms.

 Maine LD 1727          Rep. Kuhn (D)              Chatbots             Requires disclosure to consumers when they are
                                                                        interacting with an AI chatbot. It prohibits using AI in
                                                                        a way that could mislead a reasonable consumer into
                                                                        believing they are talking to a real person, unless a
                                                                        clear and conspicuous notice is provided.

 New York S 6453        Sen. Gounardes (D)         Frontier/            The “Responsible AI Safety and Education (RAISE)
                        & Asm. Bores (D)           Foundation           Act,” requires large developers of frontier models to
 (Awaiting Governor
                                                   Models               write and publish a safety and security protocol and
 action)
                                                                        implement appropriate safeguards to prevent an
                                                                        “unreasonable risk of critical harm.”




                                           Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025      15
Table 13. Enrolled or Enacted and Passed (in at least one chamber) Technology-Specific AI Bills
                                                                                                             (continued)


New York S-3008C    N/A (FY26 Budget)         Chatbots             Prohibits operators from offering AI companion
                                                                   chatbots without a protocol to detect and respond
                                                                   to suicidal ideation or self-harm, including referring
                                                                   users to crisis services. Operators must also provide
                                                                   clear and conspicuous notifications informing users
                                                                   that they are not communicating with a human.

Utah SB 452         Rep. Moss (R)             Chatbots             Suppliers of mental health chatbots must refrain
                                                                   from advertising any products or services during
                                                                   user interactions unless explicitly disclosed, and are
                                                                   prohibited from the sale or sharing of individually
                                                                   identifiable health information gathered from users.

                     KEY BILLS THAT PASSED AT LEAST ONE CHAMBER
California AB 410   Asm. Wilson (D)           Chatbots             Would amend the state’s chatbot law to clarify
                                                                   that “chatbots” include generative AI-automated
                                                                   accounts. It would prohibit using bots to mislead
                                                                   others about their artificial identity and require
                                                                   disclosure that they are not human before any initial
                                                                   interaction and upon user inquiry.

New York S 6954     Sen. Gounardes (D)        Generative AI        The “Stop Deepfakes Act,” would require generative
                                                                   AI providers to include provenance data on
                                                                   synthetic content produced or modified by a
                                                                   generative AI system.

New York S 5668     Sen. Gonzalez (D)         Chatbots             Would establish liability standards for chatbot
                                                                   responses, preventing proprietors of chatbots from
                                                                   waiving liability if a chatbot provides misleading or
                                                                   incorrect information that harms a user, including
                                                                   self-harm. It also includes disclosure and notice
                                                                   provisions and sets additional requirements for
                                                                   proprietors interacting with minor users.

New York S 934      Sen. Gonzalez (D)         Generative AI        Would require owners and operators of generative AI
                                                                   systems to conspicuously display a warning on the
                                                                   user interface that informs users that the system’s
                                                                   outputs may be inaccurate or inappropriate.

New York A 6578     Asm. Bores (D)            Generative AI        The “AI Training Data Transparency Act,” would
                                                                   regulate generative AI model/service training data,
                                                                   including requiring generative artificial intelligence
                                                                   model/service developers to publicly post
                                                                   information on their training data.




                                      Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025    16
 Table 14. Enrolled or Enacted and Passed (in at least one chamber) Liability AI Bills

Includes the bill number, author, category, and description of bills enrolled or enacted, as well as bills
passing at least one legislative chamber, in 2025 under the theme of Liability and Accountability.
  = Signed by Governor and Enrolled or Enacted        = Passed Chamber       = Passed Chamber + Cross-Committee
  = Passed Both Chambers + Vetoed by Govenor


                                          ENROLLED OR ENACTED BILLS
 Bill Number            Author                      Category             Description

 California SB 53       Sen. Weiner (D)             Foundation           Requires large developers of frontier models to write
 (Awaiting Governor                                 Models/AI            and publish a frontier AI framework and implement
 action)                                            Safety               appropriate safeguards to prevent “catastrophic risk.”
                                                                         Includes protections against retaliation for employee
                                                                         whistleblowers.

 California AB 853      Asm. Wicks (D)              GenAI                Would offer amendments to the California AI
 (Awaiting Governor                                                      Transparency Act, requiring large online platforms to
 action)                                                                 provide a user interface to disclose the availability
                                                                         of system provenance data. The bill would add new
                                                                         obligations for capture device manufacturers and
                                                                         introduce new restrictions for GenAI platforms.

 California AB 489      Asm. Bonta (D)              Health               Would provide regulators the authority to enforce
 (Awaiting Governor                                                      title protections against those who develop or deploy
 action)                                                                 AI systems that claim to be licensed or certified
                                                                         health professionals.

 California AB 316      Asm. Krell (D)              Employment           Would clarify that in actions against defendants that
 (Awaiting Governor                                                      developed or used AI, it is not a legal defense that
 action)                                                                 the AI autonomously caused the harm.


 Montana SB 212         Sen. Zolnikov (R)           Miscellaneous        Would create the “right to compute” and prohibit the
                                                                         government from restricting the use or development
                                                                         of AI without demonstration of necessity.


 New York S 6453        Sen. Gounardes (D)          Frontier Models/     Among other things, the “Responsible AI Safety and
 (formerly S 6953)                                  AI Safety            Education (RAISE) Act” would broadly authorize the
 (Awaiting Governor
                                                                         New York AG to investigate and enforce state liability
 action)                                                                 laws and regulations.


 Texas HB 149           Rep. Capriglione (R)        Government           Among other things, the “Texas Responsible AI
 (TRAIGA)                                           Use/Liability        Governance Act” (TRAIGA) institutes a regulatory
                                                                         sandbox, provides broad authority to the Texas AG to
                                                                         issue civil investigative demands (CIDs), and create
                                                                         rebuttable presumptions, affirmative defenses, and a
                                                                         right to cure.

 Utah HB 452            Rep. Moss (R)               Health/              It would also allow businesses to take advantage
                                                    Transparency/        of an affirmative defense, provided they maintain
                                                    Chatbots             certain AI governance measures.




                                            Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025    17
Table 14. Enrolled or Enacted and Passed (in at least one chamber) Liability AI Bills (continued)



                      KEY BILLS THAT PASSED AT LEAST ONE CHAMBER

California AB 1405   Asm. Bauer-Kahan (D)     AI Safety            Would require an AI auditor to enroll with the
                                                                   Government Operations Agency, where individuals
                                                                   could report misconduct by an enrolled AI auditor on
                                                                   the agency’s website.

California SB 813    Sen. McNerney (D)        AI Safety            Would establish independent, third-party
                                                                   “multistakeholder regulatory organizations” (MRO)
                                                                   that would devise safety standards and later certify
                                                                   and monitor AI developers and deployers who meet
                                                                   the standards.

Connecticut SB 2     Sen. Maroney (D)         Comprehensive        Would establish an artificial intelligence regulatory
                                              AI                   sandbox program.

New York             Sen. Gonzalez (D)        Chatbots             Would establish liability standards for chatbot
S 5668 / A 6767                                                    responses, preventing proprietors of chatbots from
                                                                   waiving liability if a chatbot provides misleading or
                                                                   incorrect information that harms a user, including self-
                                                                   harm. It also includes disclosure and notice provisions.

New York A 6578      Asm. Bores (D)           GenAI                As part of a liability regime, this bill would require
                                                                   generative AI model developers to publicly post
                                                                   information on their training data.

New York S 6954      Sen. Gounardes (D)       GenAI                As part of a liability regime, this bill would require
                                                                   generative AI providers to include provenance data
                                                                   on synthetic content produced or modified by a
                                                                   generative AI system.

New York             Sen. Gonzalez (D)        ADMT/High-Risk       Among other things, this bill would also create
S 1169 / A 8884                               AI                   whistleblower protections,

New York A 8833      Asm. Bores (D)           Liability            The “Understanding Artificial Intelligence Act”
                                                                   would implement a liability regime for developers of
                                                                   covered artificial intelligence models. The bill would
                                                                   hold developers of covered models “strictly liable,”
                                                                   regardless of the degree of care they exercised for
                                                                   all injuries to a non-user of a covered model.

Virginia HB 2094     Del. Maldonado (D)       ADMT/High-Risk       Would regulate AI systems used in consequential
                                              AI                   decisions, requiring entities to use reasonable care
(Vetoed)
                                                                   to protect consumers from algorithmic discrimination.
                                                                   The bill would be enforced by the state AG, with
                                                                   authority to issue civil investigative demands (CIDs),
                                                                   and similar affirmative defenses to Colorado,
                                                                   including a right to cure.




                                      Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025      18
 Table 15. Definitions of Artificial Intelligence in 2025 AI Bills

Breakdown of definitions of “artificial intelligence” in enrolled, enacted and key bills in 2025.

 Legislation        Terminology                   Definition

 California SB 53   Artificial Intelligence       Means an engineered or machine-based system that varies in its level of
                    Model                         autonomy and that can, for explicit or implicit objectives, infer from the
                                                  input it receives how to generate outputs that can influence physical or
                                                  virtual environments.

 California SB 7    Artificial Intelligence       Means an engineered or machine-based system that varies in its level of
                                                  autonomy and that can, for explicit or implicit objectives, infer from the
                                                  input it receives how to generate outputs that can influence physical or
                                                  virtual environments.

 California         Artificial Intelligence       Means an engineered or machine-based system that varies in its level of
 AB 1018                                          autonomy and that can, for explicit or implicit objectives, infer from the
                                                  input it receives how to generate outputs that can influence physical or
                                                  virtual environments.

 Montana            Artificial Intelligence       Means any machine learning-based system that, for any explicit or implicit
 SB 212             System                        objective, infers from the inputs the system receives how to generate
                                                  outputs, including but not limited to content, decisions, predictions, and
                                                  recommendations that can influence physical or virtual environments.

 Nevada AB 406      Artificial Intelligence       Means a machine-based system that, for any explicit or implicit
                                                  objective, infers from the inputs the system receives how to generate
                                                  outputs, including, without limitation, content, decisions, predictions, or
                                                  recommendations that can influence physical or virtual environments.

 New York           Artificial Intelligence       Means a machine-based system that can, for a given set of human-defined
 S-3008C            or Artificial Intelligence    objectives, make predictions, recommendations, or decisions influencing
 (FY26 Budget)      Technology or AI              real or virtual environments, and that uses machine- and human- based
                                                  inputs to perceive real and virtual environments, abstract such perceptions
                                                  into models through analysis in an automated manner, and use model
                                                  inference to formulate options for information or action.

 Texas HB 149       Artificial Intelligence       Means any machine-based system that, for any explicit or implicit objective,
                    System                        infers from the inputs the system receives how to generate outputs,
                                                  including content, decisions, predictions, or recommendations, that can
                                                  influence physical or virtual environments.

 Utah SB 226        Artificial Intelligence       Means a machine-based system that makes predictions, recommendations,
                                                  or decisions influencing real or virtual environments.


 Illinois HB 1806   Artificial Intelligence       Means a machine-based system that, for explicit or implicit objectives, infers,
                                                  from the input it receives, how to generate outputs such as predictions,
                                                  content, recommendations, or decisions that can influence physical or virtual
                                                  environments. “Artificial intelligence” includes generative artificial intelligence.

 New York           Artificial Intelligence       Means a machine-based system that can, for a given set of human-defined
 S 6453                                           objectives, make predictions, recommendations, or decisions influencing
                                                  real or virtual environments, and that uses machine- and human-based
                                                  inputs to perceive real and virtual environments, abstract such perceptions
                                                  into models through analysis in an automated manner, and use model
                                                  inference to formulate options for information or action.


                                          Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025             19
 Table 16. Definitions of Frontier/Foundation Models in 2025 AI Bills

Breakdown of definitions of “frontier model” and “foundation model” in enrolled, enacted and
key bills in 2025.
 Legislation     Terminology           Definition

 New York         Frontier Model        Means either of the following:
 A 6953                                          (a) an artificial intelligence model trained using greater than 10º26
 (RAISE Act)                                     computational operations (e.g., integer or floating-point operations), the
                                                 compute cost of which exceeds one hundred million dollars; or
                                                 (b) an artificial intelligence model produced by applying knowledge
                                                 distillation to a frontier model as defined in paragraph (a) of this
                                                 subdivision, provided that the compute cost for such model produced by
                                                 applying knowledge distillation exceeds five million dollars.

 California       Foundation Model;     Foundation Model: An artificial intelligence model that is all of the following:
 SB 53            Frontier Model                 (1) Trained on a broad data set.
 (TFAIA)
                                                 (2) Designed for generality of output.
                                                 (3) Adaptable to a wide range of distinctive tasks.
                                        Frontier Developer: A person who has trained, or initiated the training of, a frontier
                                        model, with respect to which the person has used, or intends to use, at least as
                                        much computing power to train the frontier model as would meet the technical
                                        specifications found in subdivision (i).
                                        (i) (1) Frontier model: A foundation model that was trained using a quantity of
                                        computing power greater than 10^26 integer or floating-point operations.
                                        (2) The quantity of computing power shall include computing for the original
                                        training run and for any subsequent fine-tuning, reinforcement learning, or other
                                        material modifications the developer applies to a preceding foundation model.
                                        (j) Large frontier developer: A frontier developer that together with its affiliates
                                        collectively had an annual gross revenues in excess of five hundred million
                                        dollars in the preceding calendar year.




                                      Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025       20
 Table 17. Definitions of Generative Artificial Intelligence in 2025 AI Bills

Breakdown of definitions of “generative artificial intelligence” in enrolled, enacted and key bills in 2025.

 Legislation         Terminology                    Definition

 New York            Generative Artificial          Means a class of artificial intelligence models that are self-supervised
 S 6954              Intelligence System            and emulate the structure and characteristics of input data to generate
                                                    derived synthetic content, including, but not limited to, images, videos,
                                                    audio, text, and other digital content.

 New York            Generative Artificial          Same as above
 A 6578              Intelligence
                                                    Means a class of artificial intelligence models that are self-supervised
                                                    and emulate the structure and characteristics of input data to generate
                                                    derived synthetic content, including, but not limited to, images, videos,
                                                    audio, text, and other digital content.

 New York S 934      Generative Artificial          Same as above
                     Intelligence System
                                                    Means a class of artificial intelligence models that are self-supervised
                                                    and emulate the structure and characteristics of input data to generate
                                                    derived synthetic content, including, but not limited to, images, videos,
                                                    audio, text, and other digital content.

 California          Generative Artificial          Means artificial intelligence that can generate derived synthetic
 AB 1064             Intelligence                   content, including text, images, video, and audio, that emulates the
                                                    structure and characteristics of the artificial intelligence’s training data.

 California          Generative Artificial          Means artificial intelligence that can generate derived synthetic
 AB 853              Intelligence System/           content, including text, images, video, and audio, that emulates the
                     GenAI system                   structure and characteristics of the system’s training data.

 Examples of definitions from other bills that did not proceed to first chamber:

 Massachusetts       GenAI Model                    An AI model designed to generate new data or content based on
 H 90                                               the patterns or structures from its training data. For clarity, this does
                                                    not include non-generative capabilities like classification, predictions
                                                    or labeling.

 Maryland            Generative Artificial          Means artificial intelligence that can generate derived synthetic content,
 HB 823              Intelligence                   such as a text, images, video, and audio, that emulates the structure and
                                                    characteristics of the data used to train the artificial intelligence.

 Virginia            Generative Artificial          Means artificial intelligence based on a foundation model that is
 HB 2250             Intelligence                   capable of and used to produce synthetic digital content, including
                                                    audio, images, text, and videos.




                                         Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025         21
 Table 18. Definitions of Chatbots in 2025 AI Bills

Breakdown of definitions of “chatbot” included in enrolled, enacted and key bills in 2025.

 Legislation    Terminology                   Definition

 California     Companion Chatbot             An artificial intelligence system with a natural language interface that provides
 SB 243                                       adaptive, human-like responses to user inputs and is capable of meeting a
                                              user’s social needs, including by exhibiting anthropomorphic features and being
                                              able to sustain a relationship across multiple interactions.

 California     Companion Chatbot             A generative artificial intelligence system with a natural language interface that
 AB 1064                                      simulates a sustained humanlike relationship with a user by doing all of the
                                              following:
                                                 (A) Retaining information on prior interactions or user sessions and
                                                 user preferences to personalize the interaction and facilitate ongoing
                                                 engagement with the companion chatbot.
                                                 (B) Asking unprompted or unsolicited emotion-based questions that go
                                                 beyond a direct response to a user prompt.
                                                 (C) Sustaining an ongoing dialogue concerning matters personal to the user.

 California     Bot                           An automated online account or application that a reasonable person could
 AB 410                                       believe is a human being and with respect to which substantially all of the
                                              actions or posts of that account or application are the outputs of generative
                                              artificial intelligence.

 Maine          Artificial Intelligence       Means a software application, web interface or computer program that simulates
 LD 1727        Chatbot                       human conversation and interaction through textual or aural communications.


 New York       AI Companion                  A system using artificial intelligence, generative artificial intelligence, and/
 S 5668                                       or emotional recognition algorithms to simulate social human interaction,
                                              by retaining information on prior interactions and user preference, asking
                                              questions, providing advice, and engaging in simulated conversation on matters
                                              of personal well-being.

 New York       AI Companion                  A system using artificial intelligence, generative artificial intelligence, and/or
 S-3008C                                      emotional recognition algorithms designed to simulate a sustained human or
                                              human-like relationship with a user by:
                                              (i) retaining information on prior interactions or user sessions and user
                                              preferences to personalize the interaction and facilitate ongoing engagement
                                              with the AI companion;
                                              (ii) asking unprompted or unsolicited emotion-based questions that go beyond
                                              a direct response to a user prompt; and
                                              iii) sustaining an ongoing dialogue concerning matters personal to the user.


 Utah           Mental Health Chatbot         “Mental health chatbot” means an artificial intelligence technology that:
 SB 452                                       (i) uses generative artificial intelligence to engage in interactive conversations
                                              with a user of the mental health chatbot similar to the confidential
                                              communications that an individual would have with a licensed mental health
                                              therapist; and
                                              (ii) a supplier represents, or a reasonable person would believe, can or
                                              will provide mental health therapy or help a user manage or treat mental
                                              health conditions.




                                          Future of Privacy Forum | The State of State AI 2025 | SUPPLEMENTAL | October 2025       22
1350 EYE STREET NW, SUITE 350 | WASHINGTON, DC 20005   FPF.ORG | info@fpf.org
