                                                                                                                                                                        Last Updated: August 2025

                                                                   State Artificial Intelligence Legislative Tracker


INTRODUCTION
Substantial legislative attention has been focused on artificial intelligence (AI) regulation as governments, organizations, and policymakers grapple with how to regulate the technology. Below
you will find brief summaries of state legislation related to AI, categorized by three focus areas. All legislation has been introduced in the current state legislative session. The document is
divided into the following sections:
    •      Consumer-Facing – Covers legislation that impacts AI business practices and consumers, particularly regarding health care, patient care, and media.
    •      Developers – Covers legislation that pertains to owners, operators, and developers of AI systems and AI data centers.
    •      Workplace-Facing – Covers legislation that relates to the use of AI in hiring, law enforcement, surveillance, and among state employees.


QUICK LINKS
    I.         Consumer-Facing
    II.        Developers
    III.       Workplace-Facing


ENACTED LEGISLATION
    •      NY Relates to the disclosure of automated employment decision-making tools and maintaining an artificial intelligence inventory (S822 / A433) – Signed into Law (2/14/2025)
    •      CO Preventing Unauthorized Disclosure of Intimate Digital Depictions Act (SB 288) - Signed into Law (6/2/2025)
    •      TX Relating to use of artificial intelligence in utilization review conducted for health benefit plans. (HB 2922 / SB 815) – Signed into Law (6/20/2025)
    •      TX Relating to electronic health record requirements; authorizing a civil penalty. (HB 4503 / SB 1188) – Signed into Law (6/20/2025)
    •      TX Relating to the regulation and use of artificial intelligence systems and the management of data by governmental entities. (SB 1964) – Signed into Law (6/202025)
    •      TX Texas Responsible Artificial Intelligence Government Act (TRAIGA) (HB 149) – Signed into Law (6/22/2025)
    •      CT An Act Concerning Health Insurance and Patient Protection (SB 10) – Signed into Law (6/24/2025)




                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                          © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                                                   Last Updated: August 2025


                                          RELEVANT LEGISLATION FROM CURRENT SESSION
  I.     Consumer-Facing

             State                  Bill Number                     Bill Status                    Relevant Provisions
California                 SB 11                           Passed Senate          Provides that California’s “right of publicity” law
                                                                                  governing the commercial misappropriation of a
                                                                                  person’s name, image, or likeness applies to digital
                                                                                  replicas and requires entities that make available to
                                                                                  consumers AI tools capable of producing digital
                                                                                  replicas provide a consumer warning, among other
                                                                                  things.
California                 AB 410                          Passed Assembly        Requires bots to disclose that they are AI and not
                                                                                  intentionally mislead people.
California                 AB 512                          Passed Assembly        Restricts and creates standards for AI used by
                                                                                  specialized health care service plans and specialized
                                                                                  health insurers.
California                 AB 489                          Passed Assembly        Prohibits AI technologies from indicating or implying
                                                                                  that the advice, care, reports, or assessments provided
                                                                                  through AI are provided by a natural person with the
                                                                                  appropriate health care license.
California                 AB 682                          Passed Assembly        Requires health insurers to include specified
                                                                                  information for each month, including the number of
                                                                                  claimed denied that at any point were processed,
                                                                                  adjudicated, or reviewed with artificial intelligence or
                                                                                  other predictive algorithms.




                                                               2

                                                                                       © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                              Last Updated: August 2025


California   AB 853    Passed Assembly      Requires a GenAI system hosting platform to ensure that
                                            any GenAI system it hosts includes permanent or
                                            extraordinarily difficult to remove disclosures in the
                                            content created or significantly altered by the system.

California   SB 503    Passed Senate        Requires developers and deployers of AI systems to make
                                            reasonable efforts to identify AI systems used to support
                                            clinical decision-making or health care resource
                                            allocation that are known or have a reasonably
                                            foreseeable risk for biased impacts in the system’s
                                            outputs; requires developers and deployers to mitigate
                                            such risk.



California   AB 1018   Passed Assembly      Regulates the development and deployment of an
                                            automated decision system used to make consequential
                                            decisions.



Colorado     SB 288    Signed by Governor   Creates a cause of action for nonconsensual disclosure of
                       (6.2.2025)           an intimate digital depiction created or altered using AI.




                           3

                                                  © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                               Last Updated: August 2025


Colorado      SB 318    Failed               Amends Colorado SB 24-205, which created consumer
                                             protections in interactions with AI, by redefining
                                             “algorithmic discrimination”; exempting specified
                                             technologies; and eliminating the requirement that a
                                             developer or deployer notify the attorney general of any
                                             known or reasonably foreseeable risks of algorithmic
                                             discrimination arising from the intended uses of the high-
                                             risk AI system, among other things.

Connecticut   SB 10     Signed by Governor   Prohibits the use of AI to make an adverse determination
                        (3.14.2025)          based on medical necessity.



Connecticut   SB 2      Failed               Comprehensive regulations for high-risk AI systems,
                                             focusing on consumer protection and the reduction of
                                             algorithmic discrimination across various industries.


Connecticut   HB 5045   Failed               Seeks to amend existing statutes to criminalize the
                                             unauthorized creation and distribution of digitally
                                             manipulated intimate images, with a specific focus on
                                             nonconsensual "deep fake" pornography.



Connecticut   HB 5587   Failed               Prohibits health insurers from using AI as the primary
                                             method to deny health insurance claims.




                            4

                                                   © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                        Last Updated: August 2025


Connecticut   HB 6846   Failed       Prohibits the distribution of deceptive synthetic media
                                     within the ninety-day period preceding an election or
                                     primary.
Connecticut   SB 1440   Failed       Criminalizes unauthorized dissemination of intimate
                                     images that are digitally altered or created through the use
                                     of AI.

Connecticut   HB 5590   Failed       Amends existing statutes to prohibit health insurers from
                                     utilizing artificial intelligence in the denial of health
                                     insurance claims.



Connecticut   HB 5598   Failed       Criminalizes the creation and distribution of artificial
                                     intelligence-generated pornographic images of
                                     individuals without their consent.



Georgia       SB 167    Introduced   Provides broadly for private entities that employ certain
                                     AI systems to guard against discrimination caused by
                                     such systems.



Georgia       HB 478    Introduced   Requires that AI-generated content used in commerce or
                                     trade include a disclaimer.




                            5

                                           © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                       Last Updated: August 2025


Georgia    HB 566    Introduced                      Provides civil liability for the unauthorized use of a
                                                     digital replica, among other things.

Georgia    HB 715    Introduced                      Prohibits the use of AI without human oversight for
                                                     making housing determinations.

Illinois   SB 1425   Re-referred to Assignments*     Provides that the Department of Insurance's regulatory
                                                     oversight of insurers include oversight of an insurer's use
                                                     of AI systems to make or support adverse determinations
                                                     that affect consumers, among other things.


Illinois   HB 3021   Re-referred     to      Rules   Amends the Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business
                     Committee**                     Practices Act. Provides that it is an unlawful practice for
                                                     any person to engage in a commercial transaction or trade
                                                     practice with a consumer in which: (1) the consumer is
                                                     communicating or otherwise interacting with a chatbot,
                                                     artificial intelligence agent, avatar, or other computer
                                                     technology that engages in a textual or aural
                                                     conversation; (2) the communication may mislead or
                                                     deceive a reasonable consumer to believe that the
                                                     consumer is communicating with a human representative;
                                                     and (3) the consumer is not notified in a clear and
                                                     conspicuous manner that the consumer is communicating
                                                     with an artificial intelligence system and not a human
                                                     representative.




                         6

                                                           © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                             Last Updated: August 2025


Illinois   SB 2259           Re-referred to Assignments*   Amends the Medical Practice Act of 1987. The act
                                                           defines terms and provides that a health facility, clinic,
                                                           physician's office, or office of a group practice that uses
                                                           generative artificial intelligence to generate written or
                                                           verbal patient communications pertaining to patient
                                                           clinical information shall ensure that the communications
                                                           meet certain criteria.



New York   A 768 / S 1962    Introduced                    Regulates the use of high-risk AI decision systems across
                                                           various industries, including finance, healthcare,
                                                           education, and employment. It seeks to prevent
                                                           algorithmic discrimination by requiring developers and
                                                           deployers to implement comprehensive risk management
                                                           policies and conduct regular impact assessments.

New York   A 8884 / S 1169   Passed Senate                 Regulates the development and use of certain AI systems
                                                           to prevent algorithmic discrimination; requires
                                                           independent audits of high risk AI systems; provides for
                                                           enforcement by the attorney general and a private right of
                                                           action.

New York   A 235             Introduced                    Requires the owner, licensee, or operator of a visual or
                                                           audio generative AI system to take steps to prohibit its
                                                           users from creating unauthorized realistic depictions of
                                                           public officials.




                                 7

                                                                 © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                            Last Updated: August 2025


New York   A 1280            Introduced   Establishes the crime of unlawful dissemination or
                                          publication of a fabricated photographic, videographic, or
                                          audio record as a class E felony.

New York   A 1509 / S 1815   Introduced   Requires publishers of books created wholly or partially
                                          with the use of generative artificial intelligence to
                                          disclose such use of generative artificial intelligence
                                          before the completion of such sale; applies to all printed
                                          and digital books consisting of text, pictures, audio,
                                          puzzles, games or any combination thereof.


New York   S 2414            Introduced   Requires political communications that use synthetic
                                          media to disclose that they were created with the
                                          assistance of AI; requires committees that use synthetic
                                          media to maintain records of such usage.


New York   A 3265            Introduced   Enacts the New York AI bill of rights to provide residents
                                          of the state with rights and protections to ensure that any
                                          system making decisions without human intervention
                                          impacting their lives do so lawfully, properly, and with
                                          meaningful oversight.




                                 8

                                                © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                      Last Updated: August 2025


New York   A 8556 / S 7896     Passed Assembly      Prescribes requirements and safeguards for the use of an
                                                    AI algorithm or other software tool for the purpose of
                                                    utilization review for health and accident insurance.




Texas      HB 2922 / SB 815    Signed by Governor   Restricts a utilization review agent from using AI to make
                               (6.20.2025)          or partly make an adverse determination.



Texas      HB 4503 / SB 1188   Signed by Governor   Requires a health practitioner to review all records
                               (6.20.2025)          created with AI and disclose the practitioner’s use of AI
                                                    to the practitioner’s patients.
Texas      SB 1411             Failed               Prohibits physicians or health care providers from using
                                                    clinical AI-based algorithms to discriminate on the basis
                                                    of a protected characteristic, among other things.

Texas      HB 366              Failed               Requires disclosure of political advertising containing
                                                    altered media.



Texas      HB 556              Failed               Makes it a criminal offense to distribute AI images with
                                                    the intent to influence the outcome of an election.




                                   9

                                                          © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                    Last Updated: August 2025


Texas   HB 3694             Failed               Requires covered platforms to notify and remove explicit
                                                 images of an identifiable individual.


Texas   HB 3950 / SB 1960   Failed               Creates a private cause of action for the unauthorized use
                                                 of a digital replica; disclosing that the digital replica was
                                                 generated through the use of AI is not a defense.

Texas   HB 4018 / SB 1822   Failed               Regulates the use of AI to conduct a utilization review of
                                                 health benefit plans.

Texas   HB 4455             Failed               Requires healthcare providers to disclose if they are using
                                                 AI.

Texas   HB 4635             Failed               Requires insurers to disclose if a denial determination
                                                 was made using AI.

Texas   SB 2567             Failed               Requires the use of AI to determine pricing to be
                                                 disclosed.


Texas   HB 5496             Failed               Imposes certain requirements on persons who use AI in
                                                 conducting business or otherwise providing a good or
                                                 service, including operating or providing access to a
                                                 social media platform, creating or distributing political
                                                 advertising, or providing financial services.
Texas   HB 149              Signed by Governor   Regulates the use of AI systems in the state.
                            (6.22.2025)



                                10

                                                       © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                Last Updated: August 2025


Texas      HB 5517   Failed   Allows users to bring action against a social media
                              platform to compel the platform to remove unwanted AI-
                              generated images.

Texas      SB 668    Failed   Requires certain covered entities providing lending,
                              underwriting, risk assessment, investing, or hiring decision
                              services in Texas to provide disclosures related to its use of
                              AI models.
Texas      SB 2966   Failed   Establishes a framework to govern the use of AI systems in
                              critical decision-making by private companies; ensures
                              consumer protections.

Virginia   HB 2268   Failed   Establishes a division to oversee and enforce laws governing
                              AI.




                         11

                                    © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                                           Last Updated: August 2025


  II.    Developers

             State              Bill Number                Bill Status                       Relevant Provisions
California            SB 468                  Introduced                 Imposes a duty on a covered deployer who deploys a high-
                                                                         risk AI system that processes personal information to
                                                                         protect personal information held by the covered deployer,
                                                                         subject to certain requirements.
California            SB 53                   Passed Senate              Requires developers who harness an extraordinary amount
                                                                         of computing power to create, implement, and publish a
                                                                         safety and security protocol and a transparency report for
                                                                         each released model; establishes a critical incident
                                                                         reporting mechanism; provides whistleblower protections
                                                                         for employees and contractors of large developers who
                                                                         report risks or noncompliance.
California            AB 316                  Passed Assembly            Prohibits a defendant who developed, modified, or used
                                                                         AI from asserting a defense that the AI autonomously
                                                                         caused the harm to the plaintiff.
California            SB 243                  Passed Senate              Imposes restrictions on chatbot operators, including
                                                                         requiring an operator of a companion chatbot to prevent
                                                                         the chatbot platform from providing rewards to a user at
                                                                         unpredictable intervals and requiring an operator to
                                                                         annually report to the Office of Suicide Prevention certain
                                                                         things.
California            AB 412                  Passed Assembly            Requires developers to post training data publicly and
                                                                         document any copyrighted materials that the developer
                                                                         knows were used to train the model.

California            AB 1405                 Passed Assembly            New regulations for AI auditors in California, aimed at
                                                                         enhancing accountability and transparency in the use of AI
                                                                         systems.

                                                 12

                                                                               © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                 Last Updated: August 2025


California    SB 420    Passed Senate          Requires a developer or a deployer of a high-risk
                                               automated decision system to perform an impact
                                               assessment on the system before making it publicly
                                               available, among other things.

California    AB 979    Passed Assembly        The California Cybersecurity Integration Center is tasked
                                               with enhancing the state's cybersecurity framework,
                                               particularly in relation to artificial intelligence (AI) and
                                               other emerging technologies. Its mission focuses on
                                               mitigating the risks and impacts of cyber incidents on
                                               California's economy and critical infrastructure.
Colorado      HB 1212   Failed                 Prohibits AI developers from retaliating against
                                               whistleblowers; requires developers to notice all workers
                                               working on a foundation model of the worker’s rights
                                               under the bill; requires a developer to create and provide
                                               an internal whistleblower process.
Connecticut   HB 5076   Failed                 Seeks to improve energy and water efficiency standards
                                               for AI data centers. It mandates that these centers source
                                               at least 50% of their energy from renewable sources and
                                               implement energy storage systems alongside modern grid
                                               infrastructure.
Illinois      HB 3041   Re-referred to Rules   Provides that a covered entity (any entity or any person,
                        Committee**            other than an individual acting in a non-commercial
                                               context, that alone or jointly with others determines the
                                               purposes and means of collecting, processing, or
                                               transferring covered data) may not collect, process, or
                                               transfer covered data unless the collection, processing, or
                                               transfer is limited to what is reasonably necessary and
                                               proportionate.



                            13

                                                     © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                              Last Updated: August 2025


Illinois   SB 1792            Re-referred to Assignments*   Requires the owner, licensee, or operator of a generative
                                                            AI system to conspicuously display a warning on the
                                                            system's user interface that is reasonably calculated to
                                                            consistently apprise the user that the outputs of the
                                                            generative AI system may be inaccurate or inappropriate.
Illinois   HB 3506            Re-referred to Rules          Requires a developer to produce, implement, follow, and
                              Committee**                   conspicuously publish a safety and security protocol that
                                                            includes specified information. Provides that, no less than
                                                            every 90 days, a developer shall produce and
                                                            conspicuously publish a risk assessment report that
                                                            includes specified information. Provides that, at least once
                                                            every calendar year, a developer shall retain a reputable
                                                            third-party auditor to produce a report assessing whether
                                                            the developer has complied with its safety and security
                                                            protocol.
New York   S 934A / A 3411B   Passed Senate                 Requires the owner, licensee or operator of a generative
                                                            AI system to conspicuously display a warning on the
                                                            system's user interface that is reasonably calculated to
                                                            consistently apprise the user that the outputs of the
                                                            generative artificial intelligence system may be
                                                            inaccurate.
New York   S 6955 / A 6578    Introduced                    Establishes the AI Training Data Transparency Act
                                                            requiring developers of generative AI models or services
                                                            to post on the developer's website information regarding
                                                            the data used by the developer to train the generative AI
                                                            model or service, including a high-level summary of the
                                                            datasets used in the development of such system or
                                                            service.




                                  14

                                                                  © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                                  Last Updated: August 2025


New York   S 8331A             Introduced                     Requires developers of generative AI systems or services
                                                              to post certain information on the developer's website
                                                              regarding video, audio, text and data from a covered
                                                              publication used to train the generative AI system or
                                                              service; allows journalism providers to bring an action for
                                                              damages or injunctive relief against developers.
New York   A 8833              Introduced                     Establishes the Understanding Artificial Responsibility
                                                              Act, requiring developers of covered models to be strictly
                                                              liable for certain injuries.


New York   S 6953B             Passed Assembly; Returned to   Regulates the training and use of advanced AI systems
                               Senate                         known as frontier models.



Virginia   HB 747              Failed                         Establishes regulations for developers and deployers of
                                                              high-risk AI systems in Virginia, focusing on mitigating
                                                              algorithmic discrimination and ensuring transparency.


Virginia   HB 2250             Failed                         Requires developers of AI to disclose information about
                                                              their training data sets and to retain information about their
                                                              data sets.


Virginia   HB 2121 / SB 1417   Failed                         Requires a developer of an artificial intelligence system or
                                                              service to apply provenance data to synthetic digital
                                                              content that is generated by such developer's generative
                                                              artificial intelligence system or service and requires a


                                   15

                                                                    © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                        Last Updated: August 2025


                                        developer to make a provenance application tool and a
                                        provenance reader available to the public.



Virginia   HB 2554 / SB 1161   Failed   Requires developers of AI systems to implement
                                        reasonable procedures to prevent downstream use without
                                        required disclosures, among other things.




                                   16

                                             © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                                               Last Updated: August 2025


  III.     Workplace-Facing

             State                      Bill Number             Bill Status                       Relevant Provisions
California                    SB 7                    Passed Senate           Restricts and creates standards of use for AI tools in state
                                                                              government hiring, among other things.

California                    SB 833                  Passed Senate           Establishes human oversight mechanism for AI systems in
                                                                              California’s critical infrastructure, requiring a human to
                                                                              monitor and review and approve any plan or action proposed
                                                                              by the covered AI system before execution.
California                    SB 238                  Passed Senate           Requires an employer to annually report all the workplace
                                                                              surveillance tools they are using in the workplace.

California                    SB 366                  Introduced              Requires the Department of General Services to contract with
                                                                              the University of California, Los Angeles Labor Center to
                                                                              conduct a study evaluating the impact of AI on worker well-
                                                                              being, job quality, types, different populations, and state
                                                                              revenues.
California                    SB 524                  Passed Senate           Requires law enforcement agencies in California to establish
                                                                              policies governing the use of AI in the creation of official
                                                                              reports.

Colorado                      HB 1264                 Failed                  Prohibits surveillance-based discrimination against a
                                                                              consumer or worker based on surveillance data through the
                                                                              use of automated decision systems to inform wages or prices.




                                                          17

                                                                                    © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                       Last Updated: August 2025


Connecticut   SB 1249   Failed       Outlines legislative changes in Connecticut aimed at
                                     enhancing the management and regulation of AI and data
                                     governance. A key provision is the establishment of a Chief
                                     Data Officer responsible for overseeing data management
                                     across state agencies, facilitating data sharing, and ensuring
                                     data quality to promote accountability and prevent
                                     discrimination.

Connecticut   SB 1484   Failed       Limits use of electronic monitoring by employers and
                                     establishes AI standards for employers.




Georgia       SB 37     Introduced   Requires state government entities to develop and maintain
                                     AI usage plans.




Georgia       SB 164    Introduced   Prohibits surveillance-based wage discrimination.




                            18

                                           © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                  Last Updated: August 2025


Georgia    SB 104    Introduced                 Restricts the state government use of any AI system
                                                developed or associated with China.




Illinois   SB 1366   Referred to Assignments*   Requires the Department of Innovation and Technology to
                                                adopt rules establishing policies and procedures concerning
                                                the development, procurement, deployment, use, and
                                                assessment of AI by agencies of state government; prohibits
                                                the deployment and use of AI by state government agencies,
                                                unless permitted by rules adopted by the Department.


Illinois   SB 2117   Referred to Assignments*   Amends the Department of Innovation and Technology Act;
                                                directs the Generative AI and Natural Language Processing
                                                Task Force to: (i) recommend policies and procedures
                                                concerning the procurement, deployment, and use by State
                                                agencies of systems that employ generative AI; (ii)
                                                recommend policies and procedures concerning uses by state
                                                agencies of generative AI that should be prohibited; and (iii)
                                                assess the use of generative AI by state agencies on the
                                                provision of state services; adds a date by which the Task
                                                Force must deliver an addendum to its report and adds to the
                                                Task Force the Chief Procurement Officer for General
                                                Services.




                        19

                                                      © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                                 Last Updated: August 2025


Illinois   HB 3529         Re-referred to Rules Committee** Requires the Department of Innovation and Technology to
                                                            adopt rules regulating businesses that use AI systems to
                                                            ensure compliance with the 5 principles of AI governance.




Illinois   HB 3720         Re-referred to Rules Committee** Sets forth provisions prohibiting a state agency, or any entity
                                                            acting on behalf of an agency, from utilizing or applying any
                                                            automated decision-making system, directly or indirectly,
                                                            without continuous meaningful human review when
                                                            performing any of the agency's specified functions.



New York   S 822 / A 433   Signed by Governor                  Relates to the disclosure of automated employment decision-
                           (2.14.25)                           making tools; requires the office of information technology
                                                               services to maintain an artificial intelligence inventory;
                                                               provides that the use of artificial intelligence systems shall
                                                               not affect the existing rights of employees pursuant to an
                                                               existing collective bargaining agreement, or the existing
                                                               representational      relationships      among       employee
                                                               organizations or the bargaining relationships between the
                                                               employer and an employee organization.




                               20

                                                                     © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                    Last Updated: August 2025


New York   A 1952              Introduced           Requires employers and employment agencies to notify
                                                    candidates for employment if machine learning technology is
                                                    used to make hiring decisions prior to the use of such
                                                    technology.




Texas      SB 1964             Signed by Governor   Reviews and regulates state government use of AI.
                               (6.20.2025)




Texas      SB 2490             Failed               Outlines an amendment to the Business & Commerce Code
                                                    in Texas concerning the use of biometric identifiers in AI
                                                    applications.




Texas      HB 5118 / SB 2991   Failed               Authorizes a study on employer and state agency use of
                                                    automated employment decision tools in assessing an
                                                    applicant’s suitability for a position.




                                   21

                                                          © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                                                                                                                    Last Updated: August 2025


 Texas                                 SB 2473                                                    Failed                                     Restricts and creates standards of use for AI tools in state
                                                                                                                                             government hiring.




 Virginia                              HB 2046 / SB 1214                                          Failed                                     Creates requirements for the development, deployment, and
                                                                                                                                             use of high-risk artificial intelligence systems by public
                                                                                                                                             bodies.




* Illinois may carryover legislation to 2026. During even-numbered years, the Committee on Assignments must refer to a Senate committee appropriation bills implementing the budget and other legislative
measures deemed by the Committee on Assignments to be of an emergency nature or to be of substantial importance to the operation of government. See Ill. Senate Rule 3-7(b).

** Illinois may carryover legislation to 2026. During even-numbered years, the Rules Committee must refer to a standing committee or a special committee appropriation bills implementing the budget and other
legislative measures deemed by the Committee on Assignments to be of an emergency nature or to be of substantial importance to the operation of government. The Rules Committee may refer any legislative
measure to a joint committee of the House and Senate created by joint resolution. See Ill. House Rule 18.




                                                                                                       22

                                                                                                                                                    © 2025 STEPTOE LLP ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
